The pianist Kenny Barron has a brisk but unostentatious technique and a deceptively casual way with a phrase. He conveys a number of things clearly in his playing; what comes across over all is the quiet hum of effortless erudition. Within his playing you can hear a digest of mainstream jazz piano traditions, with bebop as the root. You can also hear the measured tension of an expert nudging himself toward a challenge.
Mr. Barron began a run at the Village Vanguard on Tuesday with Kiyoshi Kitagawa on bass and Francisco Mela on drums. The trio's first set started strong, with a spidery piano introduction that tumbled into a songbook standard. It was ''How Deep Is the Ocean?'' by Irving Berlin, and it showcased the group's strengths efficiently. Mr. Barron navigated the harmonic contours of the tune with fluid aplomb, borrowing some agile stylistic devices from Bill Evans. Mr. Kitagawa shadowed him with a responsive bass line, nimble and gliding, before shaping a concise and thoughtful solo. Mr. Mela applied a mischievous tilt to his time feel, occasionally interrupting a steady-ride cymbal pattern to issue asymmetrical accents on his toms.
The group fared even better on a pair of songs by Thelonious Monk, a pianist and composer to whom Mr. Barron has paid ample homage over the years. ''Ask Me Now'' began with a masterly solo introduction, as Mr. Barron engaged a pianistic voice steeped in Monk's dialect but refreshingly free of his mannerisms.
''Well You Needn't'' was more of a collective feature, bright and bursting. Accompanied only by Mr. Mela at first, Mr. Barron dived into his version of post-bop modernism, mixing hornlike right-hand flourishes with chiming left-hand drones. When Mr. Kitagawa entered, shifting the band into a fast-walking swing, there was spontaneous applause.
A similar moment transpired during during ''Seascape,'' one of Mr. Barron's original tunes, when Mr. Mela opened the throttle of his rhythmic engine, inspiring an impressive upsweeping glissando from the pianist. But the song itself felt static, as if its form was too familiar to inspire much drama.
Similar suspicions were triggered by ''Um Beijo,'' an original ballad that Mr. Barron outfitted with unfocused meanderings instead of his usual clear-eyed lyricism; and by ''Calypso,'' a ditty with a rhythmically prescriptive title. There was promise in both tunes, but neither prompted Mr. Barron to reach beyond the proficiency that, for another pianist, might be an end in itself.
Kenny Barron continues through Sunday at the Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com.
MUSIC REVIEW
