A season of adversity for the Seattle Seahawks fittingly ended with frustration.
Robbie Gould's 49-yard field goal in overtime Sunday gave the Chicago Bears a 27-24 victory and ended the Seahawks' bid to repeat as the National Football Conference champions. A season ago, Seattle rolled to the conference's best record and reached the Super Bowl. But this season was filled with obstacles.
Many important players missed time with injuries, including quarterback Matt Hasselbeck and running back Shaun Alexander. The departure of left guard Steve Hutchinson to Minnesota via free agency hurt Seattle's running game. Finally, after escaping last week with a 1-point victory against Dallas in their playoff opener, the Seahawks ran out of answers here.
Just like last season, when the Seahawks felt demoralized after losing to Pittsburgh in the Super Bowl, their locker room was filled with quiet players with dejected faces.
''This will be one that we think about for a long time,'' Hasselbeck said. ''I guess this just isn't our year. Last year, things came easier for us. Very few guys got hurt, our offensive line was healthy all season, everything was easier. This year was more like what most teams go through. But I'm proud of this team, the way we kept fighting.''
Seattle became the first Super Bowl loser since the 1999 Tennessee Titans to make the playoffs the next season. Sunday's loss, however, was filled with missed opportunities. They had the ball first in overtime but could not score. And on the ensuing punt, Ryan Plackemeier's 18-yard kick failed to pin down the Bears and gave them the ball at their 34 for the final drive.
Plackemeier said he rushed the punt when he was pressured.
''I've got to learn to trust my protection,'' he said. ''A bad punt in that situation is not what we need.''
Early in the game, Seattle squandered another chance. On Chicago's opening drive, a pass by Bears quarterback Rex Grossman deflected off the hands of defensive back Jordan Babineaux and into the arms of Chicago's Rashied Davis for a 37-yard gain. Three plays later, the Bears scored a touchdown to take the lead, and Grossman's confidence was boosted.
How would Grossman have reacted if his pass had been intercepted by Babineaux on the game's opening drive? The Seahawks will never know, but Babineaux could not get that play out of his mind.
''The ball slipped right through my hands,'' said Babineaux, who was also beaten in overtime when Davis made a 30-yard reception that helped set up Gould's winning field goal. ''A lot of people didn't think we should be here, but we knew we could line up and play with anybody.''
With Hasselbeck and Alexander returning, Seattle has the nucleus to be a contender for several seasons. But that did not ease the pain.
''The finality of losing a playoff game this week hurts,'' Seahawks Coach Mike Holmgren said. ''I hope down the road, we get a few more cracks at this thing.''
PRO FOOTBALL
