Sloan  ''Never Hear the End of It''  (Yep Roc)
There are 30 songs on Sloan's ''Never Hear the End of It,'' a playlist that's part stunt and part statement by a band that has always been equally fond of and self-conscious about pop. It's the eighth studio album by Sloan, the pre-eminent rock band to emerge from Nova Scotia and one of Canada's most popular bands for the last decade.
The album connects Sloan's open worship of melodic 1960s rock -- primarily the Beatles, but also the Beach Boys, the Kinks and Pink Floyd -- to the recurring, increasingly warped revivals of it. Sloan has absorbed 1970s soft rock and power pop, 1980s new wave and 1990s low-fi indie rock. Recorded in the band's Toronto rehearsal studio and elsewhere, ''Never Hear'' is as close to Guided by Voices as Sloan has previously been to the Zombies, Stealers Wheel, Squeeze or XTC.
All four band members are songwriters, and they churn out material as if they're determined to keep a disappearing style from extinction. The instrumentation -- guitars, predigital keyboards, bass, drums -- sounds vintage; the most modern style is a glimpse of punk.
In a fictionalized career outlook called ''Fading Into Obscurity'' the band sings, ''Interest in me dissipated/All my methods antiquated,'' while suggesting that the music Sloan loves, ''had so much potential/To be delicious and still be influential.''
The album is proudly kaleidoscopic. Those 30 songs run between 52 seconds and 5 1/2 minutes long, and even among the short ones, only a few come across as fragments. The tracks are run together so the album works almost as a 77-minute suite. It's a pop-rock marathon, galloping through songs about romance (''Last Time in Love''), music (''I Know You''), paranoia (''Living With the Masses''), media (''Set in Motion''), despair (''It's Not the End of the World'') and willed optimism (''I Understand''). Most of the songs stand up separately, but the album's cumulative effect is even better: a sheer abundance that insists there's enough pop to give every human concern a tune.
JON PARELES
