A hand grenade was tossed into a government army compound on Thursday night in Mogadishu, Somalia's capital, in yet another sign of growing chaos in the country.
Just days after Ethiopian-led troops helped rout once powerful Islamist forces in Somalia and install a new government in the capital, security seemed to be unraveling across the country.
The violence is surging on two fronts: antigovernment attacks and increased banditry, both of which were virtually unheard of during the Islamists' short-lived reign.
Witnesses said that shortly after nightfall, a man in a pickup truck flung a grenade over a wall and into a compound that housed Ethiopian and government soldiers. Apparently, no one was seriously hurt and the pickup truck escaped in a blaze of gunfire.
In northern Mogadishu, residents said that four people were killed Wednesday night after bandits fired a bazooka at a truck whose driver refused to pay an extortion tax. Unauthorized checkpoints have popped up all over the city, reminiscent of the years of anarchy when clan-based militias carved up Mogadishu -- and much of the rest of Somalia, for that matter.
In Dhagtur, in central Somalia, Shabelle radio reported Thursday that five people, including two children, were killed by a tribal militia during a gun battle. A dispute over a well was cited as the possible cause.
But despite the worsening violence, Somalia's transitional government is moving to consolidate its tenuous grip on power. On Thursday, Ali Mohammed Gedi, the veterinarian who is now prime minister, appointed more than 30 new judges, including two women.
''Quite soon, the police stations in Mogadishu will be operational,'' Mr. Gedi said. ''If a criminal is arrested, the police will have the access to put the criminal on trial.''
Since Somalia's central government collapsed in 1991, the wheels of justice have rusted over, leaving few functioning police stations, jails or courts.
Mr. Gedi also pushed ahead with his disarmament plan, extending until Saturday a deadline for turning in guns and threatening house-to-house searches if the guns were not surrendered.
In Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, the president of Uganda, Yoweri Museveni, announced Thursday that Uganda was ready to volunteer a battalion of around 800 soldiers to serve as peacekeepers in Somalia. The African Union is trying to cobble together a peacekeeping force to take the place of Ethiopian troops and lend much-needed muscle to the transitional government.
The transitional government is still battling the last remnants of the Islamist forces, who have fled to a remote, heavily forested area in southern Somalia along the Kenyan border. Somali officials said that several hundred Islamist fighters were cornered, and that it was only a matter of days until the Islamist movement, which had ruled much of Somalia for the past six months until Ethiopian forces intervened, was finished for good.
