To the Editor: Re ''On the Demanding Guest Diet'' (Dec. 29): I had always wondered about the flip side of hosts who invite you to their palatial homes, but don't actually want you to enter -- not without first taking off your shoes and donning a hazmat suit. Now I learn what it is. When they go visiting, they switch from being imperious hosts to demanding guest dieters.
Who in their right mind puts up with such people -- guests who demand more culinary services from their hosts than they could expect at a five-star restaurant?
My wife and I had on several occasions invited a new business colleague for dinner. Only on the third visit did it transpire that he was vegetarian! He had gamely eaten the pork, beef and chicken that we had routinely served, without demur. Thanks to that gracious attitude, he was invited back often, and we gladly catered to that minor need. Had he attacked us for not divining his culinary peculiarities, his first invitation to dinner would have been his last.
Tom Holzel  Boston
To the Editor: I read with interest and then irritation the article about the ''demanding guest diet.'' While I am sure there are plenty of humorous and frustrating stories out there, the other side was not represented. I am someone with strict dietary limitations; if I do not eat carefully, I cannot function, sometimes for days. I travel with my own food, knowing how much to bring and what can be prepared simply (I need a small space in a refrigerator and boiling water) so as not to be a burden. If I am invited to a restaurant, I simply study the menu ahead of time and call the restaurant so I do not demand an undue amount of attention. Others that I have known with similar restrictions have similar manners.
It is difficult enough in a society that idolizes the pleasure of eating to have such restrictions. We do not need articles that portray those with these limitations as inconveniences and only possessing poor manners.
Karen Beaumont  Milwaukee
To the Editor: One hostess, in order to avoid a drive to the grocery store, served caffeinated coffee and told guests it was decaffeinated. Another believes there is no space for a single box of cereal or Pop-Tarts, brought as backup by parents of young children. If these vignettes illustrate anything, it is that these passive-aggressive hosts are more demanding than their guests.
Helen Feit, M.D.  Villanova, Pa.
