The investigation of a suburban St. Louis man accused of kidnapping widened Wednesday as law enforcement officials pursued links between him and a 1991 abduction.
Prosecutors in Washington County on Wednesday charged the man, Michael Devlin, 41, with kidnapping and using a deadly weapon, asserting that Shawn Hornbeck, 15, may have faced a handgun when he was abducted four years ago near his home in Redwoods, Mo., a rural town southwest of St. Louis.
The police found Shawn at Mr. Devlin's apartment in Kirkwood, a St. Louis suburb, on Friday while searching for another boy, William Ownby, 13, who had been missing for four days. Mr. Devlin was arrested Friday and charged with one count of kidnapping William, who is known as Ben. He is being held on $3 million bail and is to be arraigned Thursday.
In Lincoln County, northwest of St. Louis, investigators named Mr. Devlin as a possible suspect in the 1991 disappearance of Charles Arlin Henderson. Charles, known as Arlin, disappeared -- like Shawn -- while riding his bike, near his home in Moscow Mills. He was also 11, and, a police spokesman said, looked a lot like Shawn and Ben.
''It may mean nothing; it may mean everything,'' said Lt. Rick Harrell of the Lincoln County Sheriff's Office.
Debra Henderson-Griffith, Arlin's mother, agreed that there was a resemblance between the boys.
''His coloring, his face, his build, his smile, he looks a lot like Ben,'' Ms. Henderson-Griffith said of the son who disappeared one evening as she cooked dinner for him. .
''If he's dead, I want justice,'' she said. ''But I think he's alive, and I want him home. I'm never going to give up hope until somebody brings me a body.''
In Washington County, John D. Ruff, the prosecutor, would not discuss the weapons charge.. But in a statement of probable cause given to the court, the Washington County sheriff, Kevin Schroeder, said Mr. Devlin, 41, abducted Shawn ''utilizing force for the purpose of terrorizing the victim.''
But both men said their evidence discredited rumors that Shawn was a runaway. ''Shawn was abducted against his will -- period,'' Mr. Ruff said. ''End of story.''
Sheriff Schroeder added: ''This is something that is so bizarre that the normal individual cannot grasp what this 11-year-old boy went through. Nobody knows. Nobody was in that situation.''
