With a decision from the Democratic National Committee on where it will hold its 2008 presidential nominating convention on the horizon, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg appeared to dampen expectations yesterday that the party would choose New York over Denver, the other city still in contention.
Referring to Denver as the city ''which everybody says is the odds-on favorite,'' Mr. Bloomberg emphasized the difficulty of raising enough money to cover the costs of playing host to the convention, sounding very much like a man reluctant to win his own bid.
''The risks that we might have been willing to run four years ago probably aren't prudent to run today -- we just don't have to do that,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference in Brooklyn, referring to the successful effort to land the 2004 Republican National Convention in the aftermath of the 2001 terror attack, when the city's economic health was in question. ''Every convention, we welcome them here, whether it's for politics or commercial, but we're just not in the business of paying for it.''
After the Republicans chose Minneapolis-St. Paul for their 2008 convention, the Democrats said they would make their selection before the end of last year, but decided to negotiate complete agreements with both competing cities before making that choice. As that process appeared to be coming to a close in December, both efforts hit snags. A crucial labor union in Denver refused to sign a pledge banning strikes during the convention, and Mr. Bloomberg in New York continued to raise alarms about the cost.
Howard Dean, the party chairman, decided to wait until January to announce the convention city.
Now, with Denver's labor situation still unsettled, Democratic officials appear no closer to a final decision, although Mr. Bloomberg's most recent comments seem aimed at lowering expectations that the convention would come East.
''I have no idea what they're going to do,'' Mr. Bloomberg told reporters, referring to Democratic officials. ''As I said, we'd love to have them, but I don't think the city can put itself on the line in this day and age to guarantee'' the $80 million to $100 million needed for such a convention.
