Opens today nationwide  Directed by Les Mayfield  91 minutes
Those who take descriptive nouns as surnames tacitly subscribe to a recertification process of sorts. Vlad the Impaler was presumably expected to impale someone now and then. Bob the Builder would be demoted to mere Bob if he didn't occasionally build something.
This should concern Cedric the Entertainer, whose artless performance deadens what could have been a much funnier comedy, ''Code Name: The Cleaner.'' He hams his way through the title role so clumsily that some game supporting performances -- most notably by Lucy Liu and Nicollette Sheridan as two delicious pieces of arm candy -- are wasted.
C. the E. -- darn it, what is the proper second reference? -- plays a man who wakes up in a hotel room with a dead guy and a briefcase full of cash, and can't remember anything, including his own name. He might be a secret agent or he might be a janitor -- Les Mayfield, the director, and Robert Adetuyi and George Gallo, the scriptwriters, try (not very successfully) to keep you guessing.
Ms. Sheridan soon turns up, saying she's the amnesiac's wife, and Ms. Liu checks in as an apparent girlfriend, but neither is what she seems. Everyone is eager to get hold of a missing computer chip.
This could have been a wry parody of the ''Bourne'' movies, but the script isn't savvy enough, and the Big Man's performance isn't subtle enough. So it ends up being something at which a grown-up could safely drop a 13-year-old, rather than something parent and child would both enjoy. (Commendably, it's relatively benign as these types of movies go, if you don't count a scene with Ms. Sheridan wearing not too much lingerie.)
The standout is DeRay Davis as a janitor with hip-hop aspirations; in the film's one memorable scene, he begs an agent to shoot him to improve his rap credentials. It makes you wish Mr. Davis had been given the lead.
NEIL GENZLINGER
''Code Name: The Cleaner'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned) because Ms. Sheridan looks criminally good in underwear.
Movie Review | 'Code Name: The Cleaner'
