Until the cost of a front-line starter drops to a more palatable price, the Mets will continue to debate whether to add a cost-effective veteran to smooth the transition for their younger pitchers. If the price is right, the Mets are interested in the right-handers Tomo Ohka and Tony Armas, who know General Manager Omar Minaya from their time together in Montreal.
They are not willing to offer a long-term deal, preferring that Ohka or Armas bridge the gap between the rotation's 40-somethings (Tom Glavine and Orlando Hernández) and its potential younger members like John Maine, Oliver Pérez, Mike Pelfrey and Philip Humber.
Ohka would probably cost more than Armas. Okha made $4.53 million last season, and his agent, Jim Masteralexis, said yesterday that he had received some two-year offers. Armas made $2.1 million last year and could probably be acquired for a slight raise.
Neither pitcher had a particularly memorable season last year. Ohka, who will be 31 on March 18, went 4-5 with a 4.82 earned run average for Milwaukee. He missed about three months with a slight injury to his rotator cuff and a hamstring injury. Masteralexis said that Ohka was healthy and training back home in Japan.
''I've provided the medicals from the Milwaukee Brewers to every team that's requested them,'' Masteralexis said. ''We welcome any examination from a doctor, if we were to go that far with a team down the road.''
Armas, 28, went 9-12 with a 5.03 E.R.A. for Washington, but he still has time to rejuvenate his career.
The Mets are more likely to sign the free-agent outfielder David Newhan, a left-handed hitter who hit .252 with 4 home runs and 18 runs batted in as a reserve outfielder with Baltimore last season. Newhan, 33, would add insurance and, with his versatility, could push for a spot in spring training. Most of the Mets' bench appears to be set; Ramón Castro, Endy Chávez, Ben Johnson, Julio Franco and Damion Easley are almost certain to make it. But if the Mets, like last year, keep another reserve player at the start of the season, Newhan would have a greater chance of making the team.
BASEBALL
