The president of the New Jersey State Senate on Thursday proposed a ban on all gifts to lawmakers as part of a sweeping package of bills intended to stiffen penalties for ethics violations.
The Senate president, Richard J. Codey, said he also planned to introduce measures that would ban political contributions by public entities, step up ethics training for lawmakers and their aides and provide full disclosure for expenditures that are added to the state's budget at the last minute.
Mr. Codey said the measures, which he hoped would pass by the end of the legislative session on July 1, would bolster public confidence in elected officials in a state that has seen more than 200 federal corruption convictions in the past five years.
''There are certain things we can do,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''We've got to make sure that we're up to speed on these progressive measures.''
Mr. Codey said he did not expect resistance to the measures, largely because each of the 120 seats in the State Legislature is up for election in November and lawmakers will be reluctant to appear soft on public corruption in a state weary of scandal.
Of the seven bills proposed by Mr. Codey on Thursday, the two most significant concern the acceptance of gifts by lawmakers and increased transparency in the state's budget process. Currently, legislators and their staff members are allowed to accept gifts valued up to $250. Mr. Codey is seeking a complete prohibition on gifts.
Mr. Codey said his proposal for advance notification about 11th-hour budget additions would require lawmakers to submit a written request for changes to the governor's proposed budget 10 to 14 days before the Legislature considers the budget bill.
Several lawmakers called for such a measure last year when more than a quarter billion dollars in expenditures for pet projects were added to the $31 billion budget only hours before it was voted on.
Before approving the budget, which ended a seven-day shutdown of state government, Gov. Jon S. Corzine cut more than $51 million of those last-minute additions.
''Senate President Codey should certainly be commended,'' Mr. Corzine's spokesman, Anthony Coley, said on Thursday. ''He has a partner in Governor Corzine on this.''
Assembly Speaker Joseph J. Roberts Jr. also pledged his support and said he hoped the measures would ''help dispel some of the public's skepticism and cynicism about government.''
Assemblyman Alex DeCroce, the leader of the Republican minority in the Assembly, said many of the proposals mirrored ideas already submitted by Republicans in recent months. ''I hope Senate President Codey will also consider these ideas,'' Mr. DeCroce said.
