Pakistan's prime minister, Shaukat Aziz, said Thursday that he wanted the three million Afghan refugees still living in Pakistan to go home as one way to end the problem of insurgents using the country as a haven.
It is the first time Pakistan has been so blunt in demanding that the Afghans, to whom it has served as host for more than 20 years since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, leave.
Mr. Aziz arrived here for talks with the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, in an effort to smooth tensions between the neighbors, but after more than two hours Mr. Karzai acknowledged that relations were only growing worse.
''Unfortunately, the gulf in relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan is getting wider, and it is not getting narrower,'' Mr. Karzai said after their meeting.
The two leaders emerged with no agreement on the main areas of contention, namely Pakistan's plan to fence and mine the border, and Afghanistan's project to convene two tribal gatherings, or jirgas, of national representatives from both countries, to try to foster peace between the countries.
Shortly before the meeting, Pakistan announced that it was going ahead with a plan to fence and mine the long mountainous border. Afghanistan has repeatedly condemned the project as a diversion from the real problem of terrorism, which it says is being incubated in Pakistan. Pakistan has also dragged its feet on organizing the tribal gatherings, promising only to form a commission to work on the idea.
''The Afghan people want to remove all those obstacles which create the divide in our relations,'' Mr. Karzai said. ''Those obstacles are created by terrorist activities which are hindering Afghanistan's reconstruction and making our schools burn.
''Security will not come to Afghanistan unless together we and Pakistan, with good and friendly relations, become tough in the fight against terrorism,'' he added. He said he wanted to hold the tribal jirgas so people could speak their minds.
Without offering specifics, Mr. Aziz said the two leaders agreed to work on resettling three million Afghan refugees back in Afghanistan and removing the sanctuary that refugee camps provide to insurgents.
''Refugee camps on our side of the border sometimes are safe havens for elements who are from Afghanistan and take safe haven there after conducting activities,'' he said.
He also defended Pakistan's plan to fence and mine the border as one way to restrict the movement of people who represent a threat to security. ''We believe that selective fencing and mining can help achieve the objective,'' he said, adding that the fence and mines would not prevent the ordinary crossing of local tribes.
