PARKER--Jack. The Board of Directors and volunteers of the New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation mourn the passing of Jack Parker, longtime supporter and friend. Through his years of dedication and commitment, Jack was a pivotal influence in JDRF's search to find a cure for diabetes. His legacy of love, perseverance and devotion to JDRF will live in our hearts forever. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife Norma and the entire Parker family.
PARKER--Jack. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International mourn the passing of Jack Parker, beloved husband of Norma Parker. Jack Parker was a longtime supporter and friend of JDRF. Through his years of dedication and commitment, Jack became a driving force behind JDRF's search to find a cure for type 1 diabetes and related complications. His legacy of love, perseverance and devotion to JDRF will live in our hearts forever, and his generous support has brought us one big step closer to a cure. Jack and Norma Parker and their family have been true leaders in the fight to cure type 1 diabetes, and JDRF truly mourns Jack's passing. Our deepest sympathy is extended to Norma and the entire Parker family. Caroline S. Lurie, a founding member of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International New York, NY.
PARKER--Jack. Daddy you were the sunshine of our lives. Nancy Magoon Jane Parker
PARKER--Jack. The Board of Governors and members of the Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our esteemed member Jack and heartfelt sympathies extended to his wife Norma and the entire family. Stuart Wilkins, President
PARKER--Jack. April 11, 1915 -January 2, 2007. Beloved husband of Norma, adored father of Nancy and Robert Magoon, Jane Parker and Fran Cosentino, cherished grandfather of Adam Glick (Denise Scruton), Peri Arenas (Ignacio), Kim Dickstein (Jordan), John Reisman (Lisa), Jill Fischer (Brett), dearest greatgrandfather of James and Max Curnin, Lola Arenas, Noah and Zoe Glick, Ben and Joey Dickstein, Julia and Jayda Reisman, Jake Ian, and Remi Fischer. There will always be a part of you in all our hearts forever. Funeral will take place on January 4th 11:30am at Temple Beth-El, Boca Raton, FL. Donations in honor of Jack Parker may be made to Parker Geriatric Institute, 271-11 76th Ave., New Hyde Park, NY 11040-1433 or Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, 432 Park Ave. South, NY, NY 10016.
