Granddaughter, Sprouting
Q. I am a former gardener, now in a New York apartment. My 4-year-old granddaughter lives in Washington, in a house with a small north-facing front yard. She has told me she'd like to grow flowers, a wish I'm eager to grant. I visit monthly, and her parents will water, but that is all the help she will get. What can we plant? Can we start anything in February?
A. Given the age of the principal gardener and her limited staff, it would be best to stick with containers, which are easier to prepare and tend than open ground.
Half-barrels are a good size and widely available, but hundreds of more stylish options are offered by Web-based specialists like SimplyPlanters.com, (800) 971-4269, and the more modernistic PlantContainers.com, (866) 342-3330.
Whatever you choose should be at least 14 inches square or 16 in diameter and a foot deep, and should have holes in the bottom for drainage.
After frost danger is past, fill the containers with a soilless planting medium like Pro-mix. Add a time-release fertilizer like Osmocote. Plant reliable low-light performers: tuberous begonias, impatiens and fuchsias. Full-service garden centers should have everything you need.
For starry, edible blue flowers over wide fuzzy leaves, sprinkle in a few borage seeds (from Nichols Garden Nursery, 800-422-3985 or nicholsgardennursery.com, or Kitchen Garden Seeds, 860-567-6086 or kitchengardenseeds.com). Borage tends to be rangy in low light, an advantage when it is combined with short, compact plants like impatiens. It is also large: plan to thin the plants on one of your visits.
If any containers can be placed in sun, consider nasturtiums and morning glories. They start with large, easy-to-handle seeds, bloom all summer and thrive on neglect. (Omit fertilizer with these two, or you'll get nothing but leaves.)
In February or anytime, sprouts are an ideal way to start gardening. In less than a week, with no soil, no sun and no special equipment, anyone can grow delicious vegetables while having a ringside seat at one of nature's miracles: the transformation of seed to plant.
Lentils are my favorite; natural food stores sell dozens of others. And if you missed the '60s or otherwise never learned, a good sprouting guide is at extension.oregonstate.edu/catalog/html/ec/ec1358.
