Theatreworks/ USA's latest production is full of luxurious romps in the grass, tender caresses and big, wet kisses. But none of it is inappropriate for children. The hunka hunka burnin' love behind these displays is Mudge, the canine half of the boy-and-his-dog duo Cynthia Rylant made famous in her ''Henry and Mudge'' books.
And what a large hunk he is: 182 pounds. He and Henry are now frolicking onstage, above, in Theatreworks's hourlong musical adaptation, which focuses on Mudge's boisterous entry into Henry's life. Henry and his parents have just relocated from an unnamed city to farm country (although you may wonder just how rural this spot is; the family still buys Chinese takeout). The move feels like foreign exile to Henry, who misses his best friend, his cousin Annie. So his parents (Joan Hess and Patrick Boll) offer him man's best friend.
Joseph Morales, a young adult actor, makes a winning Henry, and Todd Buonopane -- this is no insult -- is quite a dog as Mudge. Mr. Buonopane, who began his Broadway career as an understudy in ''The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee,'' faces far greater challenges here than polysyllabic words; as a dumb animal (Henry's mother feels this applies in every sense of the phrase), Mudge is ignorant of the entire language. Kait Kerrigan, who wrote the show's book and the lyrics for Brian Lowdermilk's ebullient score, provides very funny monologues of Mudge's thoughts and offers a wry take on a dog's perspective: when first given commands, Mudge just grins, offers a hand (or paw) and cluelessly says, ''Hi.'' (This will be immediately recognizable to anyone who has been around Labrador retrievers.) And Mr. Buonopane is very convincing. Jennifer Cody is also delightfully feisty as Annie, who threatens to steal Mudge's heart when she pays a visit.
Even children who don't have dogs will recognize the jealousy this encounter engenders and will be relieved to see that friendship prevails all around. Directed by Peter Flynn, this is one story in which ''I feel complete again when I smell you'' is the purest expression of love. (Today and tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m., Sunday at 1 and 4 p.m., the Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, 212-279-4200; $25. Through Jan. 20.)
LAUREL GRAEBER
