11 P.M. (IFC) GUNSLINGER GIRLS -- No shrinking violets, these. The tag line for this new anime series is ''Meet Daddy's little assassins.'' The premise is centered on a government-sponsored organization in the business of saving lives. The catch is that the terminally ill girls they save using cybernetic implants must become killing machines (above). Ouch. At 11:30, the channel introduces ''Basilisk,'' an animated tale of shoguns in love in feudal Japan.
8 P.M. (National Geographic) THE DOG WHISPERER -- Cesar Millan tries to give Gracie, a yellow Lab who won't come when called and has eaten a pet chicken, some lessons in respect. And then there is the issue of Bella and Big Boy, who display poor professional habits in the office where their companions work.
8 P.M. (TLC) 20 WAYS TO . . . -- A trainer, a nutritionist, a psychologist and a stylist offer advice on how to slim down. But does it work?
8:30 P.M. (The N) BEYOND THE BREAK -- Catch the wave of this teenage drama about four professional female surfers living in Hawaii under the watch of their brotherly coach, which returns tonight for a second year. Tiffany Hines plays Birdie Scott, who is beginning to feel as if her life is falling apart.
10 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER -- We've heard something like this before. Mariel Hemingway (right) guest-stars as a model and tabloid queen who finds her teenage son dead in her hospital room. Turns out he developed a brain tumor caused by a bone replacement for his legs. It also turns out those bones were sold illegally.
10 P.M. (Showtime) MASTERS OF HORROR -- In ''Right to Die,'' directed by Rob Schmidt, the husband of a badly burned, comatose woman longs to end her suffering by pulling the plug. But she has died before. And each time she is revived her apparition grows more violent.
10:30 P.M. (E!) STARVEILLANCE -- From Eric Fogel, the creator of ''Celebrity Deathmatch,'' comes this new Claymation series, in which events in the lives of celebrities -- Britney and K-Fed's wedding, say, or Mary-Kate and Ashley's search for an apartment -- are recreated in clay as they might have happened. Note the emphasis on might.
MIDNIGHT (Spike) WILD WORLD OF SPIKE -- Mop jousting, anyone? How about blindfolded kickboxing? In this new comedic action series, Kit Cope, a martial-arts fighter; Jason Ellis (near left, mud boxing with Mr. Cope), a skateboarder; and Sam Tripoli, a comedian, try to recreate unheralded sports from around the world.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK
