To the Editor:
David Brooks (''A Snit in First Class,'' column, Jan. 4) asks why rich politicians like Nancy Pelosi and George W. Bush can't just get along.
The answer is simple: Some wealthy politicians use their positions to further the interests of the wealthy.
They pursue policies that shift income upward and the tax burden down; that strip away protections for workers; that favor insurance companies, drug makers and other corporate interests over the interests of ordinary people.
But other wealthy politicians think that public servants are supposed to serve the public.
The wealthy-for-the-wealthy politicians resent their more publicly minded peers and invent clever denigrations like ''traitor to his class'' or ''limousine liberal.''
Because, as Mr. Brooks notes, political success depends on the ability to raise large sums of money, the wealthy will be overrepresented in public office. We are lucky that at least a few of them -- the Kennedys, Pelosis, Kerrys and others -- sometimes fight against their more self-serving wealthy counterparts rather than just going along.
Jay Livingston  New York, Jan. 4, 2007
To the Editor:
David Brooks dreams of reconciliation between our ranch-owning millionaire Republicans like George W. Bush and our vineyard-owning millionaire Democrats like Nancy Pelosi. His alternative dream is that a group of ''highly attractive dimwits'' spread ''bland but worthy stability over our political scene.''
How about this one mundane dream: universal health care for all American citizens regardless of wits, party or money?
Suzy Sandor  New York, Jan. 4, 2007
To the Editor:
It's true that Speaker Nancy Pelosi's wealth facilitated her election to the House. Unlike her fellow ''plutocrats'' on the other side of the aisle, however, her policy agenda is topped by bills to increase the minimum wage and to insure the nearly 50 million Americans without medical coverage, not expand the privileges of the ''haves'' and the ''have mores.''
Rather than discovering the class solidarity that David Brooks sarcastically commends, the rest of us should be glad that Democrats in many of their legislative goals remain traitors to their class.
Marc Joseph  Oakland, Calif., Jan. 4, 2007
To the Editor:
David Brooks chides Nancy Pelosi for owning a vineyard, being chauffeured to school as a child, investing in high-end real estate, and wearing pearls.
Yet Republicans have always maintained that wealth is a natural right in our country -- and how do her offenses compare with those of a political leader who sends 3,000 troops to die in a false war?
Pete Laine  Fairfax, Va., Jan. 4, 2007
