HORNBLASS--Albert, M.D. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary notes with sorrow the passing of an esteemed attending surgeon and consultant in ophthalmic plastic and reconstructive surgery. Joseph B. Walsh, M.D. Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology Robert C. Dellarocca, M.D. Chief, Oculoplastic and Orbital Surgery Service Joseph P. Corcoran, President and CEO
$(6$)HORNBLASS--Albert. The members of The Manhattan Ophthalmological Society are profoundly saddened at the passing of their friend and colleague, Albert Hornblass, M.D. Albie's surgical skills, warmth, insights, energy and faith were an inspiration to us all. We mourn his loss and extend our deepest condolences to Bernice and their family. Stephen Obstbaum, Pres.
$(6$)HORNBLASS--Albert, Dr. JBI International, formally the Jewish Braille Institute, is deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Albert Hornblass, a long time Trustee and Officer. Our heartfelt thoughts and condolences are with the family during this time of sorrow. We pray that his memory will endure as a continuing blessing and inspiration for the entire family. Judy E. Tenney, Chairman Barbara B. Friedman, Honorary Chairman Dr. Ellen Isler, President
$(6$)HORNBLASS--Albert, M.D. of Englewood, NJ. Husband of Bernice, father of David and wife Sarette, Moshe and wife Ricky, Elana and Husband Andy Dushui. Brother of Jerome Hornblass and Arlene Goodstein. Grandfather of Jordana, Julia, Gabriel, and Emma. Services Thursday 11 am at Congregation Ahavath Torah 240 Broad Avenue, Englewood, NJ. For information ''Wien & Wien'' 800-322-0533.
$(6$)HORNBLASS--Albert, M.D., The children of Keren Or Institute for the Blind and MultiHandicapped in Ramot, Jerusalem, their teachers, therapists and staff are shocked and saddened at the loss of our President, Director and friend. In America, we, his colleagues and directors offer our heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife Bernice, their loving children David and Sarette, Moshe and Rikki, and Ilana and Andy Dushey, as well as their doting grandchildren. Alby's leadership was all the more meaningful as his dedicated professional expertise engendered in all who came in contact with him, a very special empathy for the plight of our precious children he led tirelessly and truly for more than two decades. May his memory be for a blessing upon us and our works in this behalf. May his family be comforted among all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Edward Steinberg, Chairman of the Board of Directors Jay Goldsmith, Vice President Eliot Lauer, Secretary Jack Gross, Treasurer
