WOHL--Ivy. How very sad we are by the untimely death of our precious friend Ivy. We loved her and enjoyed so many memorable times together. To her beloved husband, our Rabbi Amiel Wohl, to her children, Dr. John Feder and his wife Dr. Annette Cohen, Daniel Feder, Beatrice Niv, and husband Ohad, her sister Joan and brotherin-law Paul Siskind, and all her grandchildren, we extend our love and tears. We will always remember our dear Ivy. Rita and Philip Rosen and Family.
$(6$)WOHL--Ivy, born in New York City, died peacefully Tuesday, January 16. Married to the late Dr. Benjamin Feder, their dear mother, grandmother, and sister is survived by their sons, Dr. John Feder and his wife Dr. Annette Cohen and Daniel Feder, and daughter Beatrice Niv and her husband, Ohad, grandchildren Benjamin, Eli, Tal, and Hadas, her sister Joan and Paul Siskind. Ivy Wohl's work included television, the psychiatry department of New York Medical College, and the National Chapter of the March of Dimes. As the wife of Rabbi Emeritus Amiel Wohl, she shared in the religious and social life of Temple Israel of New Rochelle and in the many community, national and international endeavors of her husband. An avid skier and tennis player, her innate dignity, natural elegance, and open and warm personality contributed to her special status in the congregation and the larger community. She was adored and will be greatly missed.
$(6$)WOHL--Ivy, With deep sorrow, we mourn the loss of our dear, precious, long time friend. A beautiful, spirited woman whose memory we will always treasure. Much love to our Rabbi and families. David and Penny Klein, Jackie and Casey Max.
$(6$)WOHL--Ivy. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorrow the passing of Ivy Wohl, beloved wife of Rabbi Amiel Wohl. She is survived by her sons, Dr. John Feder and his wife Dr. Annette Cohen, and Daniel Feder, and daughter Beatrice Niv and her husband Ohad, grandchildren Benjamin, Eli, Tal, and Hadas, her sister Joan and Paul Siskind. The funeral service will be held at noon on Friday, January 19th at Temple Israel of New Rochelle. Paul Warhit, President Evan L. Goodman, Rabbi
