The cost of putting a roof over one's head in the New York metropolitan region rose faster last year than at any other time since Edward I. Koch was mayor, the federal Labor Department reported yesterday.
The cost of housing was the main driver of inflation in the region in 2006, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Over all, consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in the region last year, but the cost of shelter rose 6.5 percent, the biggest leap since 1989, said Michael L. Dolfman, regional commissioner of labor statistics.
''The prices of homes in the last couple of years have gone up very, very significantly,'' Mr. Dolfman said, adding that shelter costs in the region are a mixed measure of apartment rents and home ownership.
The previous peak in housing inflation came just before a wrenching recession that dragged the region's housing market into a long slump. So far, the market for real estate has remained strong locally, though it has weakened rapidly in other parts of the country.
Nationally, the cost of housing rose 4.2 percent in 2006, while overall consumer prices increased 2.5 percent.
''There is kind of a parallel between the mid- to-late 1980s and what we're seeing today in terms of rapid appreciation,'' said Michael Slattery, a senior vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York.
Prices are still rising locally, but at a significantly slower rate than in the first half of 2006, Mr. Slattery said. That moderation indicates that current prices may be sustainable, he said, adding that there were no signs of a significant downturn like the one that occurred in the early 1990s.
The overall index of housing costs, which takes into account the cost of utilities as well as rents and mortgage costs, rose 5.4 percent last year, which was also the fastest rate of increase since 1989, when it rose 6.5 percent, Mr. Dolfman said.
Housing supplanted energy costs as the financial gremlin for local consumers last year, the bureau's figures show. After soaring in 2005, energy costs rose just 1.7 percent last year, the bureau said.
The price of gasoline rose 5.3 percent, while the cost of natural gas for heating homes fell 6 percent and electricity rose just 1.7 percent.
The so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes changes in the prices of food and energy because they are volatile, rose 3.7 percent in the region last year, the biggest annual increase since 1993, the bureau reported.
The only other category of consumer spending that increased 5 percent or more in the region last year was the cost of eating in restaurants. Prices of food outside the home rose 5 percent, while the cost of groceries was flat.
For the country as a whole, the cost of eating out rose more slowly (3.2 percent), but the cost of eating in rose faster (1.4 percent), according to the Labor Department.
