Matthew Marks Gallery  522 and 526 West 22nd Street; 523 West 24th Street, Chelsea  All through Jan. 27
There is a great candor to Ellsworth Kelly's art, and always has been, as you can see in what amounts to a small survey of early and recent work at Matthew Marks's various Chelsea galleries. The largest, on West 22nd Street, has a half-dozen of the artist's new abstract relief paintings, made of superimposed geometric panels. They're like altarpiece diptychs with subtly mismatched halves that stack rather than fold.
Each painting plays, in a straightforward way, with ideas that the artist, now 83, has been exploring for more than 60 years: the interrelationship, even interchangeability, of painting with sculpture; the creation of fictional objects in real space; the way abstraction can be its own kind of naturalism, intellectually demanding but utterly unesoteric, as plain and packed as a book.
Although Mr. Kelly's work is often associated with bright colors, these new pictures are in black and white. And that in itself has a long history in his career, as is demonstrated in a series of early works on paper in an adjoining gallery. Titled ''Drawings on a Bus -- Sketchbook 23, 1954,'' the series was done just after he had moved to New York, where he developed a form of abstraction inspired by the world around him.
The landmark painting ''Cité'' (1951) is an example. It's like an image of light flickering on dark water, but translated into patterns of black-and-white bars. (The image is recaptured in a singe large print installed in Marks's window-only space on West 21st Street.)
''Drawings on a Bus -- Sketchbook 23, 1954'' is what it says it is: a sequence of black ink sketches inspired by a changing shadow cast on a book the artist was reading on a bus ride. The main form starts as a small curve, then gradually swells; if you could look at the drawings flipbook-style, you'd see the black form expand to fill the white page. The sequence, drawn without guile or frills, is a record from nature and a fresh invention, from which the artist derived several black-and-white paintings.
There are more, unstacked double-panel pieces in the West 24th Street space. Here color returns, not quite bright, not quite subdued, complicated but not all that complicated -- monumental the way a tall open window, a mature rose bush or a Shaker dresser is monumental. They aren't.
HOLLAND COTTER
ART IN REVIEW
