'Big Brother' Tumult Continues  The furor over claims of racism on the British version of the reality show ''Big Brother'' intensified yesterday with an assertion and denial of racial bias, the withdrawal of a sponsor and the refusal of Channel 4 to cancel the show, the BBC reported. The Indian actress Shilpa Shetty, right, sequestered in the ''Big Brother'' house amid the international uproar surrounding complaints from viewers that her housemates had made her the target of racism, said for the first time on the show that she was being bullied because of her race. Afterward, Andy Duncan, the chief executive of Channel 4, said: ''This morning we have clarified with Shilpa, and unequivocally, she does not believe the treatment she has received is racially motivated. She thinks it is socially and culturally motivated.'' Mr. Duncan added that Channel 4 would not pull the program, but Carphone Warehouse has suspended its sponsorship. Ratings are rising.
Lindsay Lohan Seeks Treatment  The actress Lindsay Lohan, 20, a frequent partygoer, has checked into a rehabilitation center in Los Angeles, Reuters reported. Her spokeswoman declined to specify the reason or the site of the center, but Ms. Lohan, right, said in December that she had been attending Alcoholics Anonymous meetings for about a year. In a statement regarding her treatment, Ms. Lohan, who made her movie debut at 11, said: ''I have made a proactive decision to take care of my personal health.''
'Spamalot' in Quest of Oliviers  The London production of the Broadway hit musical ''Monty Python's Spamalot'' led the field with seven nominations, including best new musical, when the competitors for the Laurence Oliviers, Britain's foremost theater awards, were announced yesterday. ''Sunday in the Park With George'' received six nominations, including outstanding musical production. The winners will be announced in London on Feb. 18.
'Coram Boy' Broadway Bound  The acclaimed English National Theater production of ''Coram Boy'' is to open on Broadway at the Imperial Theater on May 2, after previews beginning on April 16. The play, adapted by Helen Edmundson from a novel by Jamila Gavin, tells of two orphans at a home for deserted children: one saved from an African slave ship, the other the abandoned son of the heir to a great estate.
