Hot on the wheeled heels of the Roller Derby girls comes another unlikely women-only sport: pillow fighting. Since last spring, the two dozen members of the Toronto-based Pillow Fight League (slogan: ''Fight Like a Girl'') have met regularly to whack, sack and (briefly) pin each other in five-minute bouts. Their matches at home have drawn hundreds of fans and curious spectators; this weekend the league makes its first journey across the border for a competition in Brooklyn as part of a planned expansion tour. Though the fighters will have to shop here for their regulation pillows -- queen-size, extra-stuffed, man-made fibers (''With down or natural fibers you can pack it too hard and knock somebody out with one swing,'' explained Matt Harsant, a league official) -- they do travel with their own pillowcases, and their own costumes. À la professional wrestling, each woman has adopted an alter ego, like Eiffel Power or Betty Clock'er, who competes in a housedress and apron, a look rarely seen in World Wrestling Entertainment. Panache counts: these fighters are judged on style, stamina and ''eye of the tiger.'' (Above, Sister Resistor, at left, vs. KilKelly in Toronto last Friday.) The appeal, said Ms. Clock'er, a k a Tara Zachariah, a 26-year-old financial journalist, is twofold: For league members, many of whom have martial-arts training, it's a good way to release aggression. ''Not very much fighting goes on in my day-to-day life,'' lamented Ms. Zachariah, who will be competing in the main event, a championship bout with the reigning queen and resident bad girl, Champain. (Fair warning: There will also be amateur matches.) And it subverts the very notion of girl-on-girl action. ''We're not being all fluffy with ribbons and nighties,'' Ms. Zachariah said. She added: ''A lot of these fights are really brutal. Fighters have gotten nosebleeds. Boozy Suzy wrenched her elbow, and she was out for two months.'' (Tonight at 8, tomorrow night at 6:30, Galapagos, 70 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-782-5188; smarttix.com or 212-868-4444; sold out tonight, $15 in advance or $20 at the door for tomorrow's match.)
MELENA RYZIK  SPARE TIMES | JAN,. 19 - JAN. 25
