9 P.M. (Animal Planet) MS. ADVENTURE Rachel Reenstra will be the first to admit that she's no expert when it comes to animal behavior, although she does have a master's degree in spiritual psychology and some experience in the proverbial jungle. In the premiere of her series, Ms. Reenstra tries to glean insight into the world of human relationships by delving into animal relationships, starting with some basic instincts -- or are they? -- involved in parenting.
8 P.M. (CMT) COWBOY U The greenhorns continue to brush up on their ranching skills in this reality series created to turn city slickers into range rovers. Tonight's challenges: riding a mechanical bull and steer wrestling.
8:30 P.M. (CMT) TRICK MY TRUCK After serving in Vietnam, Joseph Poole took to the roads as a trucker. Thirty-one years later, he has a dream: to take his Kenworth to urban areas and speak to teenagers about trucking as a noble profession that contributes to the country's prosperity. Here, the Chrome Shop Mafia turns Mr. Poole's truck into a learning center -- and the apple of the teacher's eye.
9 P.M. (BBC America) HYPERDRIVE The year: 2151. The mission: to explore all things British in a changing galaxy and protect Britain's interests. Commander Henderson (Nick Frost) leads the force aboard the spacecraft H.M.S. Camden Lock as its members boldly go where no Englishmen have gone before.
9 P.M. (Fox) TRADING SPOUSES: MEET YOUR NEW MOMMY Marguerite Perrin, a k a God Warrior, who last season was made to look like Linda Blair in ''The Exorcist'' as she preached her heated brand of Christianity, comes back for another swap -- this time with a politically conscious African-American mother in Florida. Ms. Perrin has made some changes since last year, including a 94-pound weight loss: she used the $50,000 from her first appearance, money she originally called tainted, for gastric-bypass surgery. But has her attitude been adjusted?
9 P.M. (TLC) WHAT NOT TO WEAR: MADE IN MANHATTAN Sherily Toledo, a 31-year-old single mother, routinely dresses herself in hand-me-downs. Tonight, Stacy and Clinton whisk Ms. Toledo away to a dress designer for a couture gown made to her specifications.
9 P.M. (USA) MONK Too good to be true? That's what Monk is beginning to think about his new friend.
10 P.M. (Showtime) THE BLACK CAT Once upon a midnight dreary, in this latest ''Masters of Horror'' installment, Edgar Allan Poe (Jeffrey Combs) pondered his writing, lately so weak and weary. And then a cat came a tapping, gently rapping, rapping at his chamber door. Well, whatever you do, don't answer it!
KATHRYN SHATTUCK
Tonight's TV Listings
