To the Editor:
Re ''51% of Women Are Now Living Without Spouse'' (front page, Jan. 16):
Being an ''old wife'' can be the most dreary prospect a mature woman can imagine; being a new woman the most pleasantly challenging and rewarding situation to awaken to.
After all, after a lifetime of servitude to a husband who has morphed into an increasingly petulant and dissatisfied ungrateful wretch of a so-called partner who wants to ''move on,'' newly emancipated older women, former ''old wives,'' can discover how delicious it is to be alone.
What carry the day are imagination, enthusiasm, skills honed through years of managing an entire household now so simple for one's self. And at last at long last, nobody's bad mood to cloud the days and nights.
Liberty! My life back! Thanks! I never have to cook another pot roast as long as I live.
Barbara Dix  Lauderhill, Fla., Jan. 16, 2007
To the Editor:
I found your article heartening and uplifting. More and more women envision and live their lives outside the traditional institution of marriage and focus on their careers and interests.
Unfortunately, by not mentioning lesbians and same-sex spouses, the article offers an incomplete picture of women's world, one in which relationships are still viewed as exclusively heterosexual.
There are many women who have a spouse but not a husband; similarly, there are many women who don't have a spouse simply because they cannot marry the woman they love.
Giordana Grossi  Kingston, N.Y., Jan. 16, 2007
To the Editor:
Your article was quite informative with regard to changing social mores and the empowerment of women. But there was no mention of the effects of divorce and separation on children.
Such issues likely lead to internal conflicts within parents, particularly mothers, about the effects of a potential marital separation, as parents struggle between their sense of connection and obligation to their children and their responsibility to their own self-fulfillment.
Leon Hoffman, M.D.  New York, Jan. 16, 2007
The writer is director of the Pacella Parent Child Center, New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society.
