If a high school basketball team wanted to put an easy game on its schedule, it would be well-advised to stay out of northern New Jersey.
Three of the top six teams in USA Today's national high school basketball rankings are New Jersey neighbors: No. 2 St. Benedict's in Newark, No. 4 St. Anthony in Jersey City and No. 6 St. Patrick in Elizabeth. The three parochial schools are within 15 miles of one another.
All three teams have been consistently considered among the best in the state. But having all of them so high in the national rankings is exceptional, although not unprecedented, said Carol W. Parsons, the associate director of the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association.
''We have always had great basketball in New Jersey,'' Parsons said.
St. Anthony and St. Patrick are members of the state athletic association. St. Benedict's chose not to join partly because its coach, Dan Hurley, is the son of the St. Anthony coach, Bob Hurley Sr., and they did not want to play against each other, Dan Hurley said. All three schools travel nationally, and sometimes internationally, to play the best competition, but they do not schedule regular-season games against one another.
The only possible meeting among the three national powerhouses would be between St. Anthony and St. Patrick in the parochial B state tournament.
''We just hope that they will wind up playing each other in the parochial B finals and not before,'' Parsons said.
Since 1999, St. Patrick or St. Anthony has won every parochial B championship.
The winner of the parochial B group goes on to meet the winners of the other parochial and public groups in the Tournament of Champions. St. Anthony has won 10 Tournament of Champions, and St. Patrick has won three.
COLLEGE BASKETBAL
Correction:  February 2, 2007, Friday  A sports article on Jan. 19 about three top high school basketball teams in northern New Jersey referred incorrectly to their regular-season schedules. Although the teams -- St. Benedict's in Newark, St. Anthony in Jersey City and St. Patrick in Elizabeth -- do not all play each other, St. Benedict's and St. Patrick do compete.
