''Good Girl/Bad Girl,'' Maude Maggart's must-see new cabaret show, begins with a smirking musical question, written in the 1920s: ''How could Red Riding Hood/Have been so very good/And still kept the wolf from the door?'' The song goes on to comment with a raised eyebrow: ''Father and mother she had none/So where in the world did the money come from?''
Recalling how her grandmother, Millicent Green, now 96, danced as a scantily clad teenager in the 1926 ''George White's Scandals,'' Ms. Maggart says that when she asked her grandmother if she had been a chorus girl, she blanched and insisted she was a member of ''the corps de ballet.'' In other words, leering stage door Johnnies three times her age were not showering her with jewelry in return for sexual favors.
In the age of Paris and Britney, when the word ''slut'' is casually thrown around, and sometimes adopted as a badge of freedom, though usually not, such distinctions are as pertinent as ever. ''Good Girl/Bad Girl,'' which plays at the Oak Room of the Algonquin through Feb. 10, is the rare cabaret show that matters not only musically but sociologically. Early in the show Ms. Maggart pointedly asserts that she lives by the notion that a woman's ''ownership of her sexuality is not bad.''
That assertion is underlined by her appearance. A sultry knockout (at 31), she is provocatively attired in a low-cut red dress and red heels. As in earlier cabaret shows, her blend of mystery and allure, of brat and sophisticate, evokes a film noir femme fatale of the junior variety: the wild, runaway teenager with a secret night life.
Ms. Maggart has the voice for the character. Girlish when she sings high and loud, she becomes deeply sensual when softly purring long-lined phrases with a pulsing vibrato that suggests the beating of hummingbird wings and ghosts whistling in the chimney.
As the show continues, Ms. Maggart, accompanied by Lanny Meyers on piano and Yair Evnine on cello, uses an astutely chosen selection of songs to explore conflicting female sexual stereotypes from the perspective of a beautiful woman who understands but rejects the attraction of surrendering to a man for better or for worse. ''What's the Use of Wondrin'?'' (from ''Carousel'') is used to illustrate the perils of accepting ''the most dysfunctional of ideas'' about female subservience. Although sung by a character who enters a physically abusive relationship with a man, she points out, the Richard Rodgers melody makes the idea very seductive.
The show's turning point is a rendition of the Joan Baez ballad ''Love Song to a Stranger,'' an intensely romantic ode to a one-night stand that celebrates ''passionate strangers who rescue each other from a lifetime of care.'' Ms. Maggart sings it with a sweetness and intensity that make you long to be there.
Maude Maggart performs through Feb. 10 at the Oak Room at the Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan; (212) 419-9331 or algonquinhotel.com.
MUSIC REVIEW
