The motion picture industry has announced that it is reforming its movie ratings system, which has been sharply criticized by moviemakers and by a recent hard-hitting documentary. The reforms are not perfect, and some details remain sketchy, but they are an important step toward making the movies rating more transparent and fair.
Movie ratings help shape the culture. An NC-17 rating can be so harmful at the box office that moviemakers self-censor to avoid one. The documentary ''This Film Is Not Yet Rated'' shined a highly unflattering light on how these ratings are handed out.
It revealed that most of the people who do the ratings are anonymous, so the public cannot tell if they are qualified and impartial. Some of the ''parents'' who rate movies are parents of adult children, not the sort the public thinks are involved. When moviemakers appeal a rating they are, bizarrely, prohibited from citing the ratings of other movies.
Under the new rules, which have been spearheaded by Dan Glickman, chairman of the Motion Picture Association of America, the top three movie raters will be named on the association's Web site, and there will be descriptive information about the other raters. The Web site will also include the rules of the rating system, now available only on request.
Raters will be retired when their children grow up. Filmmakers will be able to cite other films in their appeals, though it remains unclear how much weight these appeals to precedent will carry.
The reforms -- which will be more fully explained in the next few days -- are laudable, but do not go as far as they should. The identity of anyone who rates a film or rules on an appeal should be public. Good conflict-of-interest rules can prevent them from being exposed to undue influence, while identifying the raters would increase public confidence.
Mr. Glickman, who inherited the system from his predecessor, deserves credit for pushing for these changes. He says there are likely to be more reforms ahead, which is good, because there is still more to be done.
Editorial
