There is something about the urgent pace of technological progress that, no matter how welcome, seems to navigate our tastes in historical reverse. It didn't seem long before the fashion for vacuum-cooked salmon redounded to another fad for meatloaf and macaroni and cheese. The arrival of sleek, heat-retaining microfibers never sent fur on its way, it only seemed to heighten a demand for everything ermine, sable and pouffy. YouTube certainly exists in no small part to indulge our nostalgic affinities. And television, for its part, has displayed a recent interest in what some have long considered entertainment's hoariest form, the musical.
The Disney Channel has experienced tremendous success with ''High School Musical'' and its follow-up, ''Jump In!,'' which made its debut over the weekend. The casting of a new Broadway production of ''Grease'' is taking place on an NBC reality show. I don't know how long it will be before Lesley Stahl is persuaded to conduct interviews in melodic couplets, but until then we have an episode of NBC's ''Scrubs'' called ''My Musical'' this evening.
The episode revolves around the arrival of a female patient at Sacred Heart who imagines that everyone around her is not speaking but singing. For the entire show, all heard through her ears, the hospital staff converses in show tunes created by the songwriters of ''Avenue Q,'' Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx. (The gambit produces moments like this: ''Hello I'm Dr. Kelso!/I'm delighted that you came!/The doctors said you fainted and you don't know who to blame!'' Or: ''We're running a test that's a waste of our time!/But at least she'll accept that she's medically fine!'')
A show in its sixth season is often -pressed to take extreme measures. The show's producers have asked Zach Braff and the rest of the cast to sing but the cleverness of the songs, which mock patient paranoia, the process of diagnosis and doctors' apparent fascination with all things scatological make up for the ineptness of vocal talent. There are worse ways to spend a half-hour.
Scrubs
NBC, tonight at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.
Bill Lawrence, executive producer and creator. Produced by Touchstone Television.
WITH: Zach Braff (J. D.), Donald Faison (Turk), Sarah Chalke (Elliot Reid), Ken Jenkins (Dr. Bob Kelso), John C. McGinley (Dr. Perry Cox), Judy Reyes (Nurse Carla Espinosa) and Neil Flynn (the janitor).
TELEVISION REVIEW
