Merrill Lynch, the nation's largest brokerage house, capped a record earnings season for the major brokers yesterday by announcing a 68 percent gain in fourth-quarter profit.
Merrill's results, like those of its peers, were propelled by a buoyant market for mergers and acquisitions, especially buyouts, and strong results from trading and principal investments.
With the fourth-quarter results in, banks up and down Wall Street are looking more like Goldman Sachs, the competitor that everyone may love to hate but tries to imitate.
At Goldman, where fourth-quarter profit soared 98 percent, more than 64 percent of its profit last year came from trading and principal investments.
Merrill Lynch's results are starting to reflect that trend.
In the fourth quarter, investment banking and principal transactions, including net interest profit, constituted 57 percent of total net revenue, compared with only 45 percent of total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2005.
''Trading has become a bigger part of Wall Street's business,'' said Jeffrey Harte, an analyst with Sandler O'Neill & Partners.
Over all, Merrill earned $2.35 billion, or $2.41 a share -- sharply higher than forecasts -- compared with $1.37 billion, or $1.41 a share, in the quarter a year earlier. The firm also increased its dividend 40 percent, to 35 cents a common share.
Merrill shares fell $1.41, to $95.40 in trading yesterday.
On a conference call with investors, Jeffrey N. Edwards, Merrill's chief financial officer, said the results put Merrill on ''the strongest competitive footing ever as we enter 2007.''
Later, in an interview, he said: ''The most encouraging thing is the continued growth in the pipeline. It's up from the third quarter and is the highest period end pipeline we have ever had.''
For the year, Merrill reported record net earnings of $7.5 billion, up 45 percent from the previous year, on record revenue of $34.7 billion.
For the fourth quarter, trading and investment banking reported revenue of $5.4 billion, up 55 percent from the quarter a year ago and up 21 percent from the third quarter. Fixed-income revenue was up 70 percent, to $2.3 billion, while equity revenue increased 49 percent, to $1.8 billion.
Debt and equity underwriting surged, but strategic advisory services dropped a surprising 18 percent from the previous year to $286 million. Revenue in the Global Private Client business, part of global wealth management, increased 10 percent, to $3.1 billion.
Merrill attracted $22 billion in new client money, up from $17 billion a year ago, bringing total assets managed to $1.5 trillion.
