A former California accounting executive at the Orange County Chapter of the American Red Cross was indicted Wednesday on federal embezzling charges, adding to concerns raised by watchdogs over the financial management of the Red Cross and some of its chapters.
The official, Karen Shuerger, 58, who was the assistant director of accounting, was charged with misappropriating more than $100,000 over the final five years of a 17-year career at the chapter. The investigation, however, is continuing to determine if the misdeeds were broader, said officials in the United States attorney's office in Los Angeles, which is prosecuting the case.
Ms. Shuerger, the indictment said, used the chapter's traveler's checks and a credit card issued by the organization to make purchases for herself at places that included a gambling hall in Nevada, a beach resort in Hawaii and the San Diego Zoo. The embezzlement came to light, prosecutors said, after Ms. Shuerger, who had been in charge of monitoring money received by the chapter and preparing financial records, retired in the fall of 2005.
Her replacement noticed discrepancies in the accounting books, and the organization conducted an audit in 2006 that suggested possible criminal activity, said Robb C. Adkins, the assistant United States attorney prosecuting the case. The results were turned over to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, leading to Ms. Shuerger's indictment.
Ms. Shuerger, who moved from Santa Ana, Calif., to Henderson, Nev., after she retired, could not be reached for comment. She is being issued a summons to appear in court next month.
Her lawyer, Charles Fasano, expressed surprise at the indictment, saying he had been in discussions with prosecutors over the case, but he declined to comment on them or the charges.
The American Red Cross has been under fire for its management practices. Officials said they had put in place or planned several changes to address the criticism, and they pointed to the cooperation with the F.B.I. as an example of a quick response to fraud accusations.
''The American Red Cross takes a very aggressive stance against fraud and works closely with law enforcement when criminal activity is discovered,'' Stanley V. Perdue, the chief executive, said in a statement distributed by the United States attorney's office.
