A special committee of the New York State Bar Association is calling on law firms to end the practice of mandatory retirement for partners.
In a strongly worded report that is to be released today, the committee concluded that ''mandatory retirement -- requiring a partner to leave the firm upon reaching an arbitrary age -- is not an acceptable practice.''
Retirement practices at law firms is becoming a hot topic as many of the nation's lawyers enter their 60s and face policies aimed at pushing them out the door. About 57 percent of law firms with more than 100 lawyers reported having a mandatory retirement age, ranging from 65 to 72, according to a 2005 survey conducted by Altman Weil, a law firm management consulting company.
But firms that push lawyers out at an arbitrary age without taking into consideration the individual's productivity and contribution to the firm could be missing out, said Mark H. Alcott, 67, a lawyer with Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, who is president of the bar association and who formed the special committee.
''One of the things that concerns me is that mandatory retirement ages are getting younger just as people are getting older and living more productive lives,'' said Mr. Alcott, who said Paul, Weiss had a mandatory retirement age of 70.
Law firms that have adopted more-corporate structures have long argued that older partners needed to be moved out to give more opportunities and a bigger chunk of profits to younger lawyers.
But members of the special committee said that some firms adopted the policies simply to avoid uncomfortable discussions with a senior partner whose skills may be diminishing.
''We're not suggesting that partnerships should be a lifetime guarantee, but we think it is a false premise that utilizing senior lawyers in a way that's consistent with their ability to contribute denies opportunities to younger lawyers,'' said Mark C. Zauderer, 60, a lawyer with Flemming Zulack Williamson Zauderer, who was chairman of the committee.
Mr. Zauderer, who said that his firm did not have a mandatory retirement policy, noted that law firms were keeping a close eye on legal challenges to their practices.
In federal court in Chicago, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has filed a lawsuit against the law firm Sidley Austin, accusing it of age discrimination in the demotion or forced retirement of 32 older partners in 1999. Sidley has denied the accusations.
The committee did not take a position on the Sidley Austin case, Mr. Zauderer said, but he said such cases may make it hard for large law firms to justify retirement policies on the ground that partners are owners and therefore exempt from protection by age discrimination laws.
