Their husbands may not always agree on issues like the Iraq war and global warming, but when Bernadette Chirac, Laura Bush, Lyudmila Putin and Suzanne Mubarak met here on Wednesday to discuss the fight against child pornography and pedophilia, they seemed safely on the same page.
Worldwide, more than 100,000 Web sites are believed to publish child pornography and many of the children who are sexually solicited are reached online, said Mrs. Chirac, who convened the one-day gathering at Élysée Palace.
Queen Silvia of Sweden, Queen Paola of Belgium and Margarida Sousa Uva-Barroso, the wife of the president of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, also took part.
The anonymity and reach of the Internet poses an international challenge, they said, urging closer international cooperation among police officers and prosecutors and an exchange of technology to identify illegal content online.
''This reality concerns us all because the threat hangs over each of our children,'' Mrs. Chirac said.
Mrs. Bush emphasized that only international cooperation could tackle the threat, saying, ''The abuses of children on the Internet know no boundaries.''
The issue of child victimization shocked Europe in 1996, after Marc Dutroux was arrested in Belgium for kidnapping, torturing and sexually abusing six young girls, four of whom died.
Last summer, the issue was catapulted into the headlines when an 18-year-old Austrian kidnapping victim, Natascha Kampusch, escaped her abductor after eight years in captivity.
On a continent where borders are easily crossed, the concern about kidnappers taking their victims to other countries prompted the European Union last month to create a single emergency number for missing children. By the end of June, parents will be able to dial 116000 anywhere in the 27-country bloc to report a missing child.
The first ladies and queens who gathered in Paris were all honorary directors of the American-based International Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
