The owners of a motel where a fire killed 3 people and injured 14 others who were trapped because exit doors were reported to have been illegally locked were indicted on manslaughter charges on Wednesday and accused of ignoring safety regulations.
The owners, Randhir Maisuria, 39, and Prakash Patel, 37, both of Roselle Park, N.J., and their business, Chevlin Building Corporation, were also charged with violating safety laws because interior doors in the hallways meant to prevent a fire from spreading were allegedly left open, and with causing injury or damage. The charges were outlined in an indictment unsealed in Essex County Superior Court on Wednesday morning.
The fire broke out about 10:30 a.m. on Oct. 2, 2005, in a ground-floor room of the L-shaped three-story Irvington Motor Lodge on Union Avenue near the Garden State Parkway in Irvington, N.J. The flames quickly engulfed a large portion of the 80-room motel, said the Essex County prosecutor, Paula T. Dow.
Investigators have not been able to determine the fire's cause, but firefighters said they found an exit door chained and locked from the inside and had to use axes to chop it down to reach the people trapped inside.
Mr. Maisuria and Mr. Patel had been fined twice in the months before the fire for having chained the same doors, officials said.
''It is illegal to chain doors; it is illegal to prop open fire doors,'' Ms. Dow said at a news conference after the indictment was unsealed. ''When you do that, you're putting people's lives in danger and that happened here with deadly results.''
In the days after the fire, residents -- some of them long-term occupants -- and guests said the motel was not a safe place to live or stay. Gang members gathered in the hallways, drug users openly smoked crack and prostitutes plied their trade there, creating a constant fear of violence, the residents and officials said.
On the day of the fire, Mr. Maisuria said, ''we were keeping the door chained at night because people would go in the side doors.'' But on the morning of the fire, he said, the doors were not chained -- contradicting the firefighters' account.
Ms. Dow said the three people who died in the fire -- Lathan Hillard, 73, who lived in the motel with her daughter and grandchildren; Todd Day, 40; and Kimberly Jones -- all died from smoke inhalation, which she said resulted from the interior fire doors having been propped open.
Michael Critchley, a lawyer representing the owners, said they were not guilty. ''This was a tragedy,'' he said, ''but not a tragedy that should result in criminal charges against my clients.''
Mr. Maisuria and Mr. Patel also own two other motels, according to prosecutors, one in East Orange and the other in Avenel, N.J. The Irvington Motor Lodge -- where rooms ranged from $65 to $95 per night -- and were also rented by the hour -- remains closed.
