Universal Pictures has raided 20th Century Fox and hired away the animation executive who oversaw the hit ''Ice Age'' movies, a move intended to fill a void left when Paramount acquired DreamWorks and replaced Universal as distributor of animated films like ''Over the Hedge.''
The executive, Christopher Meledandri, the president of 20th Century Fox Animation, will move to Universal in April with a five-year production deal to make both animated and live-action films, according to two studio executives with knowledge of the agreement.
The executive said that Universal hopes Mr. Meledandri can build a company that is separately financed but exclusive to Universal, and one that can turn out family films as good as those made by DreamWorks Animation as well as the Walt Disney Company and its Pixar subsidiary.
A Fox spokesman declined to comment.
For Universal, whose executives declined to comment in advance of an official announcement, the loss of distribution rights for films by DreamWorks Animation left a gaping hole with consequences that extend to its parent company's theme parks, which rely on Universal movies to drive spinoff attractions.
At Fox, Mr. Meledandri oversaw the acquisition of Blue Sky Studios, a computer-animation boutique in New York that steadily grew into the animation division of the studio. Its first ''Ice Age'' feature, in 2002, grossed some $380 million worldwide and sold more than 27 million DVDs. ''Robots,'' in 2005, was made for $75 million but generated $260 million worldwide. And last year's ''Ice Age: The Meltdown'' sequel grossed $195 million domestically and $647 million worldwide.
Mr. Meledandri, who did not return a call late Wednesday, was an executive producer of ''Horton Hears a Who,'' a new telling of the Dr. Seuss classic that stars the voices of Jim Carrey and Steve Carell and scheduled for release in early 2008.
Before joining Fox, Mr. Meledandri was president of Dawn Steel Pictures at Disney, where he was executive producer of the Jamaican bobsledders movie ''Cool Runnings.''
