Surely some conspiracy theorist can explain what unnatural sequence of events prevented the string trio from becoming one of the most frequently heard ensembles, rather than the oddity it is. The configuration -- violin, viola and cello -- is perfectly balanced and symmetrical, its seamless range from soprano to bass untroubled by a top-thickening second fiddle or the distraction of a piano. And you'd think string players would form trios by the dozen just to have Mozart's E-flat Divertimento in their active repertory.
Yet composers and players have always flocked instead to string quartets, which are plentiful, while trios are comparatively few. The Janaki String Trio is making the most of an uncrowded field. Its musicians joined forces two years ago in Los Angeles and have won the Coleman Chamber Music Competition and the Concert Artists Guild International Competition. The guild sponsored the trio's New York debut concert at Weill Recital Hall on Tuesday evening.
Its repertory tilts toward the contemporary. As an opening salvo the group played Krzysztof Penderecki's String Trio (1991), in which harsh, insistent full-ensemble blasts separate agitated but singing solo lines from each of the players. Eventually the brashness of the score's first pages melts, but lyrical beauty emerges only tentatively, in the violin line, before the piece wends its way back to the grittiness of the opening.
That rough-edged quality is clearly a central part of the musicians' sound, and it turned up, in varying degrees, in everything they played. But it isn't all they do. Andrew Norman's ''Alabaster Rounds,'' composed for the trio, was inspired by listening to monks chanting at a basilica in Rome at daybreak, and it requires the ensemble to convey a sense of a shifting, mysterious atmosphere.
At first the trio plays a consonant drone, with sustained cello and quickly undulating violin and viola figures; but fleeting dissonances enliven the texture, which gradually expands in dynamics and melodic breadth. Near the end a solo viola line offers a florid evocation of plainchant.
The playing, more gentle than in the Penderecki, nevertheless had the kind of drive that gives even a slowly unfolding work like Mr. Norman's an irresistible electricity. The players -- Serena McKinney, violinist; Katie Kadarauch, violist; and Arnold Choi, cellist -- were as fresh and energetic in Beethoven's Trio in G (Op. 9, No. 1). They closed their program with an earthy, magnificently polished account of Dohnanyi's Serenade in C (Op. 10).
The Janaki String Trio performs Sunday at 3 p.m. at the Patchogue, N.Y., Theater for the Performing Arts, (631) 207-1313.
MUSIC REVIEW
