JPMorgan Chase & Company reported a 68 percent gain in fourth-quarter earnings yesterday, ending 2006 on a high note that showed record profits for its investment banking advisory businesses and vast improvement in its trading results.
JPMorgan's strong performance came during a banner year for Wall Street. But it also reflects the steady progress that James Dimon, its chairman and chief executive, has made in integrating the bank. Now that he has wrung out most of the savings from the 2004 merger with Bank One, Mr. Dimon said yesterday that he was ''declaring victory'' in the $58 billion deal.
Further progress, however, may be difficult if credit quality deteriorates sharply and the markets slow, resulting in fewer deals.
Yet Mr. Dimon was optimistic, noting the bank's strong deal pipeline and the improvement in virtually all its businesses. While the bank experienced a decline in the credit quality of its subprime mortgage business, Mr. Dimon said that he expected an uptick not a major increase in overall credit costs.
For the quarter, JPMorgan earned $4.5 billion, or $1.26 a share, compared with $2.7 billion, or 76 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. The increase reflects a $622 million after-tax gain related to its exit this year from the corporate trust business when the bank swapped those assets for Bank of New York's 338 branches. Revenue rose 14 percent, to $16.9 billion. Shares of JPMorgan rose 4 cents, to $48.43.
The strong results led Mr. Dimon to suggest that the board would consider increasing the dividend later this year. He also reiterated that the bank was now ready, if not yet willing, to do a deal.
Investment bank earnings rose 51 percent, to $1 billion in the fourth quarter, based on the bank's big advisory business and more consistent trading results in a strong market. Fixed-income trading revenue increased 77 percent, to $2 billion after a particularly bad quarter in 2005. Equity trading revenue nearly doubled, to $909 million.
The asset management business also showed steady revenue and profit growth. Revenue rose 29 percent, to $1.9 billion in the fourth quarter, while profits rose 19 percent, to $407 million.
And the credit card division posted similarly strong results at least for now. Profit rose 138 percent, to $719 million. Revenue growth was essentially flat.
A difficult operating environment and a slowdown in the housing market continued to weigh on the retail banking division. Fourth-quarter net income was $718 million, down 11 percent from a year ago.
