Jose Rivera and Juan Cortes were drinking and gambling on a street corner in the South Bronx late in the steamy afternoon of Aug. 2, 1974. But alcohol, heat and a game of craps turned out to be a dangerous combination, and the men soon fell into an argument about a roll of the dice.
Mr. Rivera, then 22 years old, became so enraged that he pulled out a pistol and shot Mr. Cortes in the neck, the authorities have said. Mr. Cortes was rushed to a hospital and survived, but the bullet left him paralyzed.
Thirty-one years later, on Dec. 29, 2005, he died.
Yesterday, the Bronx district attorney's office announced that it planned to file murder charges against Mr. Rivera, even though he has already served prison time for the attack.
Mr. Rivera is scheduled to be arraigned tomorrow in State Supreme Court in the Bronx on a charge of second-degree murder, said Steven Reed, a spokesman for the district attorney's office.
Mr. Reed said prosecutors decided to pursue the murder charge after the medical examiner's office determined that Mr. Cortes's death at age 65 had been caused by the 1974 shooting.
Mr. Cortes's death is known in official parlance as a ''reclassified homicide,'' one resulting from an injury incurred in a previous year, sometimes in a previous decade. The number of such deaths reached a record high in 2006, with 38 cases reclassified. In 2004, there were 32. The Police Department said a typical year had about 12 such cases.
Several of the recently reclassified homicide cases have been linked to gunshot and stabbing wounds from the 1970s, including six during 2006 alone, according to the police.
The bullet that hit Mr. Cortes in the neck left him bedridden in a second-floor apartment in Morrisania, and in need of around-the-clock care.
''He'd always feel cold and complained, even in the summer, he was cold,'' said Santos Toro, the superintendent of the apartment building where Mr. Cortes lived for about five years before his death.
Decades after the shooting, Mr. Cortes's legs and fingers remained so badly swollen, said Mr. Toro's wife, Ana Toro, that one of his home health care attendants became physically ill when she saw his limbs.
''Sometimes he used to say he wanted to die,'' Ms. Toro said. ''He was in pain. I used to talk to him about God.''
She said Mr. Cortes told her he had been shot when he was a young man, but never discussed the details.
Mr. Rivera served at least two years in prison on an assault charge related to the crime; the exact length of his sentence is unclear because documents from that long ago are hard to locate or are incomplete, the authorities said. Mr. Rivera is now serving a 10-year prison sentence for a burglary conviction in Buffalo, where he had moved.
The Bronx district attorney's office spent a year seeking witnesses to the shooting and examining its legal options before it decided to reclassify the crime as a murder, Mr. Reed said. He declined to say whether any witnesses had been found.
