9 P.M. (NBC) SCRUBS -- All the hospital's a Broadway stage when a woman checks into Sacred Heart complaining of hearing incessant music. Stephanie D'Abruzzo (right,on a stretcher), an original cast member of the Tony Award-winning ''Avenue Q,'' plays the patient with singing in her ears; Robert Lopez and Jeff Marx, who wrote the show's music, composed the songs for this episode.
8 P.M. (NBC) MY NAME IS EARL -- Wouldn't you know it? Before Earl (Jason Lee) can make amends, the man he once locked in a truck dies -- leaving Earl to plan a funeral for someone he didn't even know. Meanwhile, Randy (Ethan Suplee) and Catalina (Nadine Velazquez) try to make their marriage seem more real by looking for an apartment together.
8 P.M. (11) SMALLVILLE -- Calling all superheroes: the Flash, Aquaman and Cyborg show up in Smallville to help the Green Arrow take down Luthor Corp's secret lab.
8 P.M. (ABC) UGLY BETTY -- America Ferrera, who plays the title frump in this sitcom set in the fashion world, just proved that you don't have to look like, say, Sarah Jessica Parker to win a Golden Globe for best-actress in a television comedy. Tonight, Betty determines to get Daniel back to work and over his sadness about Sofia (the beauteous Salma Hayek, one of the show's executive producers) by setting him up on a date with a supermodel. Back at the office, Wilhelmina starts dreaming in pink -- as in slips -- about who will stay and who will go once she is made editor in chief of Mode. And the woman behind the mask is finally revealed.
9 P.M. (CBS) CSI: CRIME SCENE INVESTIGATION -- Liev Schreiber (left) joins the cast in a recurring role as Michael Keppler, a seasoned crime scene investigator sent in to replace Gil Grissom (William Petersen ) during his teaching sabbatical. He's as tough to read as a closed book.
9 P.M. (Discovery Health) THE DAN HO SHOW -- Attention, freshmen: Mr. Ho dishes out healthy living habits to keep college students from gaining the proverbial 15 pounds. At 9:30, he helps a couple of pack rats clean up their garage.
9:30 P.M. (NBC) 30 ROCK -- Liz (Tina Fey) and Jenna (Jane Krakowski) decide to get serious about their dating lives. But can they step into the other's shoes?
10 P.M. (CBS) SHARK -- After admitting that he has long followed the career of Sebastian Stark (James Woods, right), a serial killer (Billy Campbell) decides to test his wits by acting as his own lawyer during his trial. Turns out it's not such a bad move.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK
