Senator Joseph I. Lieberman's critics frequently enjoy referring to him as a member of ''the party of one.''
At least in the technical sense, that was true for a while in the Connecticut for Lieberman party. But now, things are getting complicated and mutiny is breaking out in the ranks -- though those ranks are few in number.
The senator's supporters created the party line last summer, solely to give Mr. Lieberman a spot on the ballot in the general election after he lost the Democratic primary to Ned Lamont.
With the knowledge that neither Mr. Lieberman nor his supporters planned to take the reins, one of Mr. Lieberman's loudest critics, John Orman, filed papers after the election with the secretary of state declaring himself chairman of the party. His rules stated that anyone who shared a name with Mr. Lieberman or disagreed with him could join.
Earlier this month, the secretary of state's office said everything appeared in order with Mr. Orman's filing.
But a supporter of Mr. Lieberman's, Stuart R. Korchin, was furious to learn that Mr. Orman was hijacking the party. After reading the news of Mr. Orman's self-appointed leadership position, Mr. Korchin sent him an e-mail message, stating that he, in fact, was the sole member and chairman of the newly created political organization. Mr. Korchin, in a personal protest over the results of the Democratic primary, changed his party registration on Aug. 9 to Connecticut for Lieberman.
''I was unaware that you wished to join,'' Mr. Korchin wrote. ''Please contact me if you are interested in helping to organize the party. I'm sure someone with your talents will be welcome.''
Apparently, when Mr. Korchin filled out a short form in August at the Cheshire Town Hall changing his party affiliation from Democrat to Connecticut for Lieberman, the information could not be properly entered in the state's electronic voter database. So when Mr. Orman contacted the secretary of state, there was no record that anyone else belonged to the nascent party.
Now the two men are at loggerheads over who controls the party, which, to anyone's knowledge, includes only the two of them.
''He can say whatever he wants; the fact of the matter is I was there first,'' Mr. Korchin said in an interview.
''I held a meeting, wrote the rules and filed with the secretary of state,'' Mr. Orman said. ''It is the real thing.''
On Wednesday, Mr. Korchin received a letter from a lawyer in the secretary of state's office, stating that the state had ''very limited jurisdiction'' over intraparty battles, and was not taking a position over just who was in charge. The secretary of state's office noted that it had already received a rules document from Mr. Orman.
On Thursday, Mr. Orman will hold what he says is the second meeting of the party, at a hotel in Milford.
