New England Coach Bill Belichick is apparently worried about getting to the Super Bowl again, not about LaDainian Tomlinson's feelings.
Tomlinson, the Chargers' star running back, was furious at the Patriots for the way they celebrated after their 24-21 playoff victory Sunday in San Diego. Vince Wilfork of the Patriots mocked the sack dance done by San Diego linebacker Shawne Merriman, doing his version on the logo of the Chargers' helmet at midfield. Afterward, Tomlinson said: ''The Patriots showed no class at all. Maybe it comes from the head coach.''
That would be Belichick, who has generally avoided controversy while guiding the Patriots to three Super Bowl victories. During his news conference Wednesday, Belichick would not be drawn into a battle of words with Tomlinson, especially with his team one victory from winning another American Football Conference championship.
''I have all the respect in the world for LaDainian Tomlinson and the San Diego Chargers,'' Belichick said. ''They are an outstanding football team. But right now, our focus is on the Indianapolis Colts.''
Belichick and Tomlinson could be reunited at next month's Pro Bowl. If the Patriots lose Sunday, Belichick will coach the A.F.C. team that Tomlinson will play for. Tomlinson, however, did not sound ready to forgive and forget.
''I don't know how that would go over,'' he said Monday when asked about the Pro Bowl. ''I probably wouldn't say two words to him.''
Belichick is not planning to be at the Pro Bowl. He is planning on winning another Super Bowl, as is Patriots quarterback Tom Brady.
''I think we always try to represent ourselves a certain way,'' Brady said of the San Diego postgame incident. ''That's up to Coach Belichick to talk about that with the players. I think we've tried to move on from that. We've won a bunch of meaningful games in the past. Some of it is just raw emotion. Some of it, maybe, does go a little bit too far. I think what happened, happened, and we're moving on.''
PRO FOOTBALL: PLAYOFF ROUNDUP
