Music history tells us of two great traditions that emanated from Vienna. The first was the classical period of the late 18th century, in which Haydn and Mozart standardized the symphony, string quartet and keyboard sonata into an international norm. Then, at the turn of the 20th century, the Second Viennese School of Schoenberg, Berg and Webern swept the old rules under the rug.
In a concert on Friday night at the Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, on Lexington Avenue at 66th Street, the New York Collegium focused on an earlier generation of Viennese composers, those employed by Austria's Hapsbourg emperors in the 17th century. In the music of Heinrich Ignaz Franz von Biber, Johann Heinrich Schmelzer, Pavel Josef Vejvanovsky and their contemporaries during the 1680s and '90s, the prevalent Italian mode of florid melody was wedded to a German passion for counterpoint and sophisticated harmony, according to a program note by the violinist Robert Mealy.
The program, which was assembled by the early-brass specialist Greg Ingles, emphasized works in which brass instruments were heard alongside strings and continuo. That combination might seem impractical today given the brightness and power of modern trumpets and trombones. But Mr. Ingles's dusky, small-bore trombone, Mr. Mealy's incisive violin and Jay Elfenbein's purring viola da gamba were evenly matched in a sonata by the Vienna-based Italian composer Antonio Bertali.
The trumpeters Kris Ingles and Carl Albach, wielding instruments that were little more than long, looped tubes, mustered exacting articulation and sterling tone. Ms. Ingles sounded tentative in a Biber sonata near the beginning of the program but grew stronger throughout the evening. In the concluding work, a chaconne by Phillip Jakob Rittler, she exchanged handsomely etched lines with Mr. Albach, two violinists and two violists.
The highlights of the concert were works by Schmelzer, a ceaselessly inventive composer and a virtuoso violinist. His ''Lamento sopra la morte Ferdinandi III'' vividly depicted a mournful funeral procession and tolling church bells. Mr. Mealy, a precise, extrovert performer, gave a thrilling account of Schmelzer's ''Sonata tertia'' (from ''Sonatae unarum fidium,'' 1664), sensitively accompanied by the harpsichordist Eric Milnes.
Mr. Milnes had a turn in the spotlight with a canzona for solo organ by Johann Caspar Kerll. In another work by that composer, a sonata for two violins, Mr. Mealy's flamboyance was matched by lithe, judicious playing from Cynthia Roberts. That such relatively esoteric music drew a large, enthusiastic audience was a testament to this ensemble's compelling advocacy.
MUSIC REVIEW
