8 P.M. (NBC) THE 64TH ANNUAL GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDS -- Warren Beatty (right), who has earned 12 Golden Globe nominations over the years for roles in films including''Reds,'' ''Bugsy,''''Bonnie and Clyde'' and''Splendor in the Grass,'' will receive the Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievement at this annual event honoring the best in film and television as chosen by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. Presenters include Cameron Diaz, Sarah Jessica Parker, Rachel Weisz, Salma Hayek, Felicity Huffman, Justin Timberlake, Reese Witherspoon and Ben Stiller. Lorraine Nicholson, the daughter of Jack Nicholson and Rebecca Broussard, is the 2007 Miss Golden Globe.
8 P.M. (Fox) 24 -- Two hours into Day 6 in this two-night, four-hour season premiere, set 20 months after the Season 5 finale, a series of terrorist attacks has plunged President Wayne Palmer (D. B. Woodside), the brother of the late President David Palmer; their sister, Angela, an advocacy lawyer (Regina King), and the president's advisers Karen Hayes (Jayne Atkinson) and Thomas Lennox (Peter MacNicol), into an unfathomable day. Fortunately for us, Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland) is freed just in time to come to the rescue. But at what price?
8 P.M. (American LifeNetwork) A JOURNEY TO DARFUR -- In this special, created to raise awareness of the humanitarian crisis in the Darfur region, George Clooney (above) and his father, Nick, journey to villages in western Sudan, where more than 400,000 people have died and millions have been displaced.
9 P.M. (History) JONESTOWN PARADISE LOST -- Using recently released information, eyewitness accounts, archival film footage and re-enactments, this special chronicles Congressman Leo Ryan's fatal journey into Jonestown, a community carved out of the jungles of Guyana by the followers of the charismatic pastor Jim Jones.
10 P.M. (MTV) THE HILLS -- After a rocky summer, the doe-eyed Lauren Conrad returns to Teen Vogue to face her boss in this second season premiere of the ''Laguna Beach'' spinoff. Meanwhile, Heidi finds herself in trouble.
10:30 P.M. (MTV) DANCELIFE -- Jennifer Lopez (right) is the executive producer of this new reality series, in which six dancers try to turn their passion into a profession in challenges including auditioning for a music video and performing for Nelly Furtado and Ashlee Simpson. Contestants include Staci, a former Pussycat Doll who has already danced with Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera; Jersey, a one-time Philadelphia Eagles cheerleader and a Las Vegas showgirl; and Nolan, who learned to dance by watching Janet Jackson videos.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK
